(A) Why do mothers instinctively hold babies on their left side? One theory was that it was a matter of convenience-mothers need their right hand free to feed the baby. Others thought it had something to do with the greater sensitivity of the left breast. But now, says a medical magazine, doctors have found the answer: mothers cradle on the left because it leaves the baby's left ear exposed. The left ear feeds information to the right side of the baby's brain, the side which interprets the melody and emotional sound quality of the mother's voice.

(B) Home is where the heart is. But at the same time, home is so sad. Bland's attitude towards his flat was the somewhat shifting point at which these two attitudes met. When he was away from it he thought of it longingly, as the place which would always provide him with a refuge from the world. When he was actually inside it, safe and warm and quiet, as he had always wished to be, it irritated him, precisely on account of those same qualities for which he had felt such intense nostalgia. The quietness, which he cherished, tormented him. There seemed to be no way in which he could resolve the conflict between these feelings.

(A) Reading is not a passive act. Good writing of any kind will invite you to participate, engaging your senses, emotions, imagination, and intellect. It will trigger your own memories and associations, and it will stimulate your thinking. When you read, you absorb, evaluate, and extend what the writer has articulated, interpreting it in light of who you are and what you know. In this sense, when you read a work of literature, you recreate it.

(B) Human cultures evolve differently under varying circumstances, just as biological systems do. From one culture to another, different attitudes about human relationships with nature-about the degree to which human beings are part of or separate from nature-prevail, and different assumptions arise concerning the roles human beings play in the natural order.

(A) A prudent employer would take the time to analyze the incentives workers might list as their reasons for working-and most importantly, the order in which they list them. A recent study disclosed that money was number seven on such a list. Topping it was satisfaction in performing the job. Obviously, that good feeling one gets from having accomplished something is still the best reward for hard labor. But workers also need to know they are doing their job well, and the major deficiency within management today is the failure of telling them so.

(B) It is good when someone speaks out about an issue that troubles a group, because then it can-must-be faced. I know from experience that the habit of avoiding controversy can in the end cause far more trouble than it avoids, because strong feelings, unexpressed, don't die but build up. They can accumulate other resentments that might otherwise be unimportant. In the end, if we are not to be possessed by hidden ill-feeling, we have to listen to one another.

(A) The mass media, printed and broadcast, are probably the most pervasive influences on attitudes and opinions in the modern world. Access to mass media is, in fact, one of the defining characteristics of modernity. Other, more powerful forces may exist within a given region or culture. On a global basis, however, in terms of sheer numbers reached, other forms of communication cannot compete with the words and pictures carried in newspapers, broadcasts, magazines, and advertising. For example, the ways women are presented in the mass media strongly affect people's notions on woman place, as it is and as it ought to be.


(B) Any grouping of human beings has its own world: a certain range of knowledge and certain modes of evaluation. Such a worldview is subject to constant modification as time rolls on. Nor can its association with the particular grouping prevent it from being adopted, to a greater or a lesser extent, by members of some other grouping. On the contrary, information, tastes, habits, modes of feeling and judgement can be transmitted from one sociocultural grouping to another, and individuals can in any case have loyalties to more than one grouping, so that they themselves are mobile between different worldviews accordingly.

(A) For better or worse, there is no doubt that English is now a world language. It is also of course a rapidly changing one, and no one can predict how it will develop. It seems likely, however, that there will be movement in two directions: on the one hand, towards greater standardization of English used as a shared means of communication in international contexts; and on the other, towards varieties of English which are only used, or understood, within particular countries or communities.

(B) The function of the nursery school is not to be a substitute for an absent mother, but to supplement and extend the role which in the child's earliest years the mother alone plays. The nursery school is probably most correctly considered as an extension 'upwards' of the family, rather than an extension downwards' of the primary school. It seems desirable, therefore, before discussing in any detail the role of the nursery school and of the teacher in particular, to set down a summary of what the infant needs from the mother, and the nature of the role that the mother plays in fostering healthy psychological development in the child's earliest years. It is only in the light of the mother's role and the child's needs that a real understanding can be gained of the way in which the nursery school can continue the mother's work.

(A) It was language that, for the first time, enabled our ancestors to teach others, including their children, about objects and events that were not actually present. There are other intelligent animals living today with complex brains and elaborate communication systems, but they cannot, so far as we know, do that. Chimpanzees and other apes can be taught many of the signs of American Sign Language, ASL. They have acquired three hundred or more, and can use them in new contexts and with each other as well as their trainers. But they did not, during their evolution, develop the uniquely human ability to talk about that which is not present, share events of the distant past, plan for the far-off future, and, most important, discuss ideas exchanging them to share the accumulated wisdom of an entire group.

From Reason for Hope: A Spiritual Journey by Jane Goodall and Phillip Berman, Grand Central Publishing

(B) Any adult who interacts with a child, any traveler who visits other cultural groups, any historian who studies beliefs and attitudes of the past immediately becomes aware that others might not interpret the world as she or he does. Even peers from the same culture are confronted with these issues, such as when communication fails or when one person misunderstands another. When we make such observations, we often say the others have different concepts from us; this sort of statement is especially common in discussions of children.

From Concepts, Kinds, and Cognitive Development by Frank C. Keil, MIT Press

(A) As a beginning we should try to clarify our thinking by looking, in some historical depth, at the presuppositions that underlie modern technology and science. Science was traditionally aristocratic, speculative, intellectual in intent; technology was lower-class, empirical, action-oriented. The quite sudden fusion of these two, towards the middle of the nineteenth century, is surely related to the slightly prior and contemporary democratic revolutions which, by reducing social barriers, tended to assert a functional unity of brain and hand. Our ecological crisis is the product of an emerging, entirely novel, democratic culture. The issue is whether a democratized world can survive its own implications. Presumably we cannot unless we rethink our axioms.

From The Historical Roots of Our Ecologic Crisis by Lynn White, Science Magazine (1967/03/10)

(B) Did you ever think, when you held or looked at a beautiful pearl, that its origin was irritation? An oyster, in response to the irritating presence of sand within its shell, creates a thing of beauty. Not only is the conflict resolved but value is created. When we understand that conflict includes the potential for us to create beautiful pearls and contribute to the world and to ourselves, then we begin to open up our shells, less concerned about letting life in. Embracing conflict can become a joy when we know that irritation and frustration can lead to growth and fascination.

